  # Binary Search Tree

Write a program that inserts numbers and searches in a binary tree.

When we need to represent sorted data, an array does not make a good
data structure.

Say we have the array `[1, 3, 4, 5]`, and we add 2 to it so it becomes
`[1, 3, 4, 5, 2]` now we must sort the entire array again! We can
improve on this by realizing that we only need to make space for the new
item `[1, nil, 3, 4, 5]`, and then adding the item in the space we
added. But this still requires us to shift many elements down by one.

Binary Search Trees, however, can operate on sorted data much more
efficiently.

A binary search tree consists of a series of connected nodes. Each node
contains a piece of data (e.g. the number 3), a variable named `left`,
and a variable named `right`. The `left` and `right` variables point at
`nil`, or other nodes. Since these other nodes in turn have other nodes
beneath them, we say that the left and right variables are pointing at
subtrees. All data in the left subtree is less than or equal to the
current node's data, and all data in the right subtree is greater than
the current node's data.

For example, if we had a node containing the data 4, and we added the
data 2, our tree would look like this:

      4
     /
    2

If we then added 6, it would look like this:

      4
     / \
    2   6

If we then added 3, it would look like this

       4
     /   \
    2     6
     \
      3

And if we then added 1, 5, and 7, it would look like this

          4
        /   \
       /     \
      2       6
     / \     / \
    1   3   5   7

* * * *

For installation and learning resources, refer to the
[exercism help page](http://exercism.io/languages/ruby).

For running the tests provided, you will need the Minitest gem. Open a
terminal window and run the following command to install minitest:

    gem install minitest

If you would like color output, you can `require 'minitest/pride'` in
the test file, or note the alternative instruction, below, for running
the test file.

In order to run the test, you can run the test file from the exercise
directory. For example, if the test suite is called
`hello_world_test.rb`, you can run the following command:

    ruby hello_world_test.rb

To include color from the command line:

    ruby -rminitest/pride hello_world_test.rb

The test files may have the execution bit set so you may also be able to
run it like this:

    ./hello_world_test.rb

## Source

Josh Cheek [https://twitter.com/josh_cheek](https://twitter.com/josh_cheek)
